Hey everybody will come back.
So this lecture we're just gonna do a quick update to tell you where we're at with the account and this
is a good day we've passed sixty thousand guys it's been a while since I checked in last I think last
time I checked in was when we hit a little bit past forty thousand and that's when I had shifted into
a fully automated regiment where we were using Javi for almost entirely everything.
Now if you look at our growth there was a period of time where we were kind of struggling as we switch
to the new Javi system.
Javi has a lot of functionality but doing complex things on it quite difficult.
I think you remember me talking about how hard it was to get the right aesthetic profile where we would
have two videos and then an image that was something I was really hard we had to figure out.
We also just had issues with reposting captions and trying to customize them so they weren't the exact
same thing over and over again.
So if you look at our growth numbers back and we were switching we were really really low to thirteen
six thirty eight 10 negative three.
It took us a solid two weeks I'd say to get to the point where everything we were doing was pretty much
fully automated and we were happy with it what we were doing was we're just reposting our original content
if you remember we created something like 400 or 500 different unique pieces of content so we just sort
of cycling through them with the understanding that occasionally someone might notice that it's the
same thing but for the most part it wouldn't really matter okay.
So we did that and doing that through Javi was fine as long as I saw positive growth numbers which for
the most part I did was very rarely negative.
Aquino occasionally we get a negative three.
I think the highest we ever had was a negative 20.
What that was is probably just you know we posted something that everyone had seen before and for whatever
reason it just was a bad day where we posted unpopular things.
And if you kind of remember before the distribution of our videos was such that maybe one out of 10
would hit the Explore page or had a bunch of hashtag pages and I would drive primarily all the growth
and the other nine really would just go to our followers and I was about it.
So if you look at our growth it's got to a point where we were you know low 30s maybe high 60s.
And that seemed to hold for a while.
We went through a couple patches where it slowed down again as you can see here had a negative 9/11
but still overall we were still growing at a pretty high.
I say a decent clip.
I mean after about a month with this fully automated it would maybe grow a thousand.
Now I need to say this again.
I grew this account for the course.
I didn't grow this for myself.
I wanted to do it to show you guys this is how you go from zero to 40 thousand didn't really have any
interest in growing it past that point.
I don't have any interest in fully monetizing an account.
So once we hit 40 K I just kind of put my foot off the gas and it's been a dollar on it except for the
software's and that was it.
I just kind of watched it to make sure nothing was exploding I wasn't getting my account shadow banned.
I was pretty much it.
But I wanted to check in and just show you what's happened since then because we did hit a period of
growth in the last 10 days where for whatever reason we've accelerated quite a bit.
So around oh let's see this is about a month ago started picking up and most of our gains were between
100 200 and 300.
Then for whatever reason starting about two weeks ago we picked up into three hundreds.
As you can see we have some six hundred nine hundred eight hundreds.
And then for the last 10 days it's just been a dead sprint and it's the lowest.
Looks like we had with a 600 but pretty much anything other than that was above six hundred of thousands
eight hundred eleven hundred was a big day and yesterday we grew about eleven hundred as well.
So if you look in the last seven days we went from fifty four thousand to about sixty thousand which
is fantastic.
That's about a rate of thirty thousand followers a month.
And you know about two hundred and fifty thousand a year.
So a lot of you might be wondering if anything's happened to our engagement.
Yes absolutely.
Our engagement went down.
Why.
Well I wasn't responding to our post anymore so I wasn't getting people hooked in conversations and
driving up the comment posts.
I also just wasn't putting anything new out there.
So a lot of people who've seen it before just didn't feel the need to comment.
So what ends up happening is our engagement rate crashed quite a bit.
Now this is not something I would expect if you were actually putting time into this.
So if we went and pulled our report I'm sure it would be considerably lower than what you guys are used
to.
So this would see March 16th that's today.
Yeah it's a forty nine.
So it ranks us as pretty much average.
Now one thing to point out about hype auditor is that they recently changed some of their algorithms.
So if you look at the individual factors it's all pretty much good like reach ability.
Meaning we're not catering to a bunch of massive accounts and aren't looking anything for the most part
it looks like everybody's real.
This is what actually was hurting at the most and for the most part Javi has been doing auto follow
follow but we've turned it down to the point where it's pretty much negligible maybe 5 to 10 followers
a day come from that tops and so that right there hurt your score quite a bit.
That's probably 20 points in their thing because if you look at everything else you know it says let's
see zero point eighty eight.
Yeah.
Obviously that's pretty bad.
One thing to keep in mind is that they can't figure out what grouper and so it says one point five three.
But if I check back next week the baseline for them might be zero point five.
It might be three if you look up here it kindly confuses us.
Like for instance it thinks we're in an art category or a design category business category.
Anything or in a science category.
Now if you look down here like spread this as too high.
Now that's not really a sign of saying like a bad cow.
This is a sign of what happens with our our account.
I mean we have home runs and then we have strikeouts.
Like I said out of 10 one blows up maybe three to OK and then six just do nothing.
So this is why you see this spread like this.
And the biggest problem is that we have a big one.
It gets seen by two hundred thousand people and a bad one will get seen by three thousand so of course
the like spreads can be pretty bad comments authenticity likes and comments ratio all pretty good advertising
performance well yeah.
Because we don't advertise post frequency they like that we post 16 times a week and we don't post it
very often at all brand mentions you know sometimes they'll mention brands but it's only when we're
highlighting a service that actually has an Instagram account so we'll tag it then.
So yeah.
I mean hype auditor can't obviously take in that context.
Now of course keep in mind like when it says are gauging rates like a little bit below 1 percent on
a good post it's like 6 or 7 percent on an okay post it's probably 2 percent and then the really bad
ones it's it's way below this even.
So this is kind of a function of what's happening with the account.
I'm not trying to grow it.
I'm not engaging with it I'm not creating new content.
I'm not running contests.
We are still doing our stories but that's because we can automate that.
So to demonstrate this I'll show you some of the posts that we're we've been doing that have done well.
So if we go and let's see.
So like this flying airplane thing if it view insights 866 profile visits and out of that 600 followers
just for that person see 93 percent weren't following us.
So that one clearly hit the explorer page and page and just exploded from there.
Now look at this one this VR goggle thing is probably the middle one hundred twenty nine visits and
about 46 follows.
Instagram has added a really interesting feature which is really useful if I click go back to that insights
page as I was looking at.
So this is the original post sixteen thousand.
If I look at this paper airplane says one hundred forty four people sent this to other people.
Now it used to be the case that they would just lump this up in from other.
So from other words people direct messaging your posts but now it just tells us directly how many people
did that.
That's incredibly useful and that's a big driver of growth in this account.
Someone sees something they think is interesting or ridiculous or related to their friend.
They send it to them.
So here's one of the ones that just blew up and this is again we've done this one before.
I think this is probably the fourth time we've posted this.
It was a bike without a chain.
I mean it's really nothing super cool about it.
She's got a cool video.
And if you look at the view insights you know one point four thousand people sent this to friends.
The Reach was foreigner thousand and ninety five percent weren't following us and out of this we got
eleven hundred followers just from one post.
Now let's see if we can find a junk post.
Let's see this one.
So this was pretty bad.
I only wanted ten thousand people so eighty four set of this one I got twenty three followers.
This one always does really well because people just hate it.
They're always freaking out about airlines making their seats more uncomfortable.
This one really got about a little bit 300 follows.
You know this one.
OK so this one automated delivery robot seven seventeen forty three views.
Right.
I think we probably at one follow from it.
So that's kind of the spread that I'm talking about.
Right so the last thing I'll say is that we ran into some pretty serious issues with Javi.
Javi again great system has a lot of potential it's great for doing zombie accounts for us for the most
part.
I dropped my zombie counts down to something like five.
So any growth coming from the zombies are gonna be pretty limited.
Most zombie strategies they're successful are when you do them over 30 or over 50 even again I've told
you about how other accounts have thousands of them.
So we've kind of dropped that down and we stuck with it just because it had the most robust posting
system.
But what was happening was this is partially why we had such a negative growth for a period of time
or not negative.
Just bad growth was that with Javi it was tripping a lot of Instagram security wires and was also happening
during a period of time or Instagram is getting a lot of flack through their parent company Facebook
for its privacy problems.
So Instagram tried to crack down a little bit on some of these automatic posting tools and they announced
that they were going to block third party systems that were using automatic posting.
This is probably the tenth time Instagram said this.
They never really do.
They crack down on the ones they think are in bad faith or doing a bad job or are you being used by
those spammers and then they just ease up usually about a month later and those tools really just resurface.
Case in point later dot com to be called later Graham.
They during this period or they said no more third party posting announced that they could now do video
posting.
So that doesn't really make any sense.
Really it's just Instagram is treating different accounts on a case by case basis.
They like later.
It's well put together and it's used by a lot of legitimate people so they probably supported it.
So what we've largely done is switch to later and once a week I'm just having someone a virtual assistant
come in and load all the posts and since it can do auto posting that's great.
Now it obviously doesn't have the same functions as Java.
Like we can't automatically tell it to post hashtags in the comments.
So we've been posting them occasionally in the actual caption itself.
Is that ideal.
No.
But again I'm not trying to spend time on this.
This is the first time I even looked at the account and probably a week.
So yeah that's a wrap.
Javi not working at the moment.
I will reassess in probably a month or so.
We are still using Javi for the like exchange it still delivers probably 300 likes per post now it's
obviously less because we don't have as many zombie accounts running and again Javi is having trouble
so the zombies aren't as prolific.
So really we've moved on to later for now.
I would still like to go back to Javi because it has so much potential for growth but I'm going to be
kind of paying attention to it and we'll see where it goes.
All right guys that's it for now.
If you have any questions about the account check it out yourself and scram dot com slash innovation
station if you have any questions that I can answer post in the Q and A or the slack group.
Again I'm not running this really aren't really doing anything so I can't answer a lot of them.
Why is it growing like crazy for the last week.
I honestly don't even know Instagram's algorithm changes constantly.
Now when I say that don't freak out and go oh they change the algorithm is your course important anymore.
I need that crap Instagram changes their algorithm twice a week.
OK so they do major changes every month but we need to keep in mind is they never change the core fundamentals.
The core fundamentals are likes their comments the click through rate when someone sees the post.
All of those things stay the same what they do do is they'll change what they look for in certain behaviors
so they might look for people who comment on their thing too much and they might wait that more or they
might start waiting likes more or comments more to the end of the day everything that's valuable is
still valuable they just like to move the weight around so potentially we could be getting a boost from
people who are sending it to their friends and maybe before they weren't valuing that as much.
I'm not entirely sure it's also worth pointing out that a lot of people think that if you do duplicate
content that your engagement or your reach or your shares are going to be lower than the first time
you post it.
Now this is kind of case in point that it's not really the case.
It's sometimes it's just luck.
Sometimes you post a certain set of hashtags and for whatever reason you get the timing right and it
just takes off and sometimes you post the exact same thing even with the exact same hashtags.
The wrong timing the wrong people look at it within a certain period of time and it just doesn't take
off with their algorithm.
So keep that in mind.
Some of our posted terrible the first two times we posted it and then it blew up the third time.
So you never really know.
All right guys enough for now.
See you guys in the course.